So we've got a user the next step is
we have to set GitHub up appropriately.
There's two pieces of this,
one is writing the GitHub action and
then two is giving away our secrets
that we created for that user.
Now, for the most part, I have a set
of handcrafted YAML files that I bring
to different projects as being one of
them that basically takes care of this.
I'm gonna type it out in
the next little piece mostly so
I can talk about each piece and
give us time to reflect on it.
This is in the notes I
dropped in the chat as well.
I would probably just copy and paste it.
The one other thing is
you've got the AWS CLI, and
you need to get your distribution
from somewhere else.
You can actually run this to see all
of your CloudFront distributions.
Since this new account,
you'd likely have one.
So that will get you that e, q whatever
distribution ID that you had before but
I will go ahead and
kind of pull this in to my code base.
And then we can kind of talk about
it as I type it but like I said,
the chance of me messing something
up slightly along the way.
So you'll have to let me know if you
see me make an obvious typo while
I'm chatting.
But we can talk about each of
the different pieces of this as we go
through it.
It's all good, okay.
So you can, there's two ways
you can go about doing this.
You go into GitHub And
let's actually bring this,
we'll go over here,
And we'll go to actions, and
you can set up a workflow for yourself.
And let's go ahead and let's make
the font bigger for everyone involved.
If it doesn't let me do that,
then I'll do in my text editor.
Okay, so your GitHub workflows live in
a directory called .github/workflows,
and you need at least one
called your main.yml, right?
So if you have more than one, I have one
for the main kind of deployment process.
I have one that just does linting and
prettier formatting and stuff like that.
I have one my TypeScript
projects that will go ahead and
run the TypeScript checker,
so on and so forth.
But you need to have at least
one that is named main.
And they give you kind of a basic one
in this case to start with, right?
Again, like the active deployment
might not be my main one but for
the purposes of our time together,
it is, right?
So you might have the one that runs your
tests as the main one that should go off.
So on and so forth, right?
You have one that runs your ciphertext,
one that runs you jest unit tests.
One that does a TypeScript checking
basically everything that you don't want
to do manually when you or one of
your friends opens up a pull request.
So we'll name this one
Deploy website.
One careful thing for us is we don't
wanna do it on pull requests, right?
So, this is when should it happen, right?
So yeah, anytime we push to main,
absolutely.
We do wanna run the test whenever somebody
opens up a pull request against main.
But we do not want to deploy
the website on a pull request.
So this one we will get rid of.
So now, whenever we push to main,
we want to do
the rest of this, That was kind of cool.
You can run it directly
from the actions tab, sure.
Okay, so jobs, we have this idea
that we want to deploy, and
it needs to run some kind of
operating system so fine.
The other part that's given to us for free
is that it will use this GitHub action to
check out the actual code, right?
This is GitHub, setting up an environment,
pulling down your code.
After this, you can basically
run different command lines and
things like here, echo, Hello,
world, this is their default.
One, I just hit create.
We're not going to use most of this but
this is kinda just showing
you the kinda steps, right?
So users is any kind of prebuilt action.
It turns out that not only does GitHub
have some useful ones for us, but
also Amazon has one that they make for
configuring your AWS CLI.
So you can do AWS stuff
inside of a GitHub action.
So we're gonna use this
ability to check out the code.
But after that,
the rest of this is just more demos.
They're just echoing a bunch of stuff.
That's very cool.
I'm happy for them.
I don't want it.
So for us and again, we have the version
of this kind of pre-built but
just to step through all the pieces.
So not only are we going
to use the GitHub checkout.
We will also use the AWS tools as well,
right, so
we can say we'll name this piece.
Well, I should do that above too.
This one will be Checkout Repository.
And after that, we will configure AWS.
So that will be name,
this does not get a, it's a sub-bullet.
My live YAML, if live deploying a CDN
wasn't dangerous enough let's live YAML,
what could possibly go wrong?
So with that the name of the GitHub
action that we want is actually is AWS
actions and it's open source
code you can go look at it.
As well,
which is configure-aws-credentials@v1.
Okay so now,
it will configure that access key,
and a secret access ID, so
you can run AWS command so
that new build process user that we made.
But we need to tell it where to
get that information from, right?
We have not put this into GitHub yet.
We will do that in a second.
But we're gonna put it in
environment variables.
We just basically need to tell this tool
what environment variables it should go
looking for to plug in these values.
So we're gonna say for the configure
aws part it's gonna use this
action AWS has made for
us and
well say with the aws-access-key-id and
then you can interpolate values
in here using this syntax.
So we'll say secrets dot and
we're gonna have to
provide this in a second,
this is not some magic value.
This is like hey GitHub workflow I'm
going to provide you something that
I'm gonna call AWS ACCESS KEY go
get that encrypted value, right?
But that's what you're going
to tell AWS is our access key.
So go grab that, then the next one
is the AWS secret access key,
Which we will call
AWS_SECRET_ ACCESS_KEY so
obvious second value and then what region.
Those are the things when you run
AWS configure before that you
paste it in manually.
But your the whole idea of this build
process is to take you out of the picture.
So in this case we will go ahead and
this one that will now be aws-region,
And you can pass it as a variable.
Or you can hard code it in, it is up to
you if you think you are gonna reuse it
with different values make it a variable
this is clearly not a secret that
we need to encrypt but we could, right?
It's up to you.
I am not in this case.
Mostly just to stick to what,
that I provided you and
we keep it the way I had it.
So this is now set to us-east-1.
I don't actually think there's a duplicate
mapping clearly it's an old error.
So we've got that in place so
now that we'll configure the AWS CLI.
That's the next piece.
Now before you saw the parts that we
deleted we're just running bash commands,
was just running echo, right?
And we saw, that we were able
to deploy our application S3,
using the AWS command line.
So at this point, all we're doing,
is pulling that logic that we had
the ability to install dependencies,
do NPM run build,
do that AWS S3, CP, yada, yada,
yada, and to push everything else.
The one additional command that
we're gonna issue is the creating
an invalidation.
Again, like if you chose to just
set a short TTL that's fine too.
I am going to set it out there as well.
So at this point we'll do another step,
which that step will be named,
I don't nee caps,
Install Modules with dependencies or
what have you.
And that just say like,
we know how to do that.
You can do NPM install.
But you can also do npm ci,
which is a version that will try to cache,
it's a very similar version npm install
but for the purposes optimized for
CI CD pipelines.
So we've got that in place, and
then we saw before that we
need to build the application.
So we'll say build application.
And could I try to jam them
into the same command?
I totally could but then I'm really gonna
suffer when I have to debug later, right?
So we'll do npm run build.
Awesome, and
now we wanna deploy to S 3, right?
And that will just run aws s3
we'll sync it just slightly
different ./build s3://.
Now you could hard code in your bucket it
was a private repo that's probably fine
because the bucket is not the same
as your secret access key.
But I don't even really wanna even
though I've exposed that in my bucket
over the last five hours.
I'm gonna pass that in as a variable
as well unlike us-east-1,
but that's kinda up to you.
I love line got moved I
have in install modules.
So we've got that in place and
then we'll do secrets let's
call this one BUCKET_NAME,
bucket ID, whatever as well.
And then finally we want to create
that CloudFront and validation
Run and
this is gonna be aws CloudFront, so
the other one is aws s3,
is aws CloudFront.
And the command is create invalidation,
and then you gotta give
it a distribution id.
And that will be in my
case secrets.DISTRIBUTION.
ID and then tell it what paths.
In my case, I was doing the star
slash just to validate everything.
Awesome, so we've got all that in place.
Now you could just invalidate
index.HTML if you wanted to.
But if there were images that got built,
if it was like a Gatsby project that
maybe like it's a little more nuanced.
You can choose to refine
this as much as you see fit.
For the purposes of just
a general use case,
I might start very broad coz thinking
you've invalidated things that you haven't
could also be somewhat problematic.
And this is our workflow in this case.
So we should be able to commit it.
Commit this new file.
Now we have an action, it should run.
Now it will theoretically deploy a version
of my site that will be mostly the same.
So as you kind of this will fail,
it will fail, why?
I told you to access all these secrets
I never told you what the secrets were.
[LAUGH] Right?
So I'm gonna add in the secrets and
then we're going to take a quick break and
your job is to change something about
the page, change it from pink to yellow.
Change it from pink, back to indigo.
Do whatever you want change it and
then we will kind of deploy it and
see that our process works.
Yeah, like I said credentials
cannot be loaded.
So let's put that in and then we'll
go ahead and we will adjust that and
send it along.
So for the settings for the repo,
you go to this tab here called Secrets.
And there are no secrets
in this repository.
We're amongst friends here.
Currently, you can go add the secret.
So ones we need to add the AWS access key,
the basic elements we call out
in that build process itself.
We're gonna take a quick break to do it.
So I'm not live streaming my
access key all over the place, but
we want to add in the AWS access key,
the AWS secret key.
The Bucket ID, and
then the distribution ID.
Cool, so let's take about 5 minutes and
we'll do that and then we'll see
if our and try after you have it in place,
change your code changes something else.
Change a word in it.
I don't care what you do.
Just verify that it works
the way you think it's going to.
I plugged in all my secrets One time
in front of everyone in the room,
I think I was fast enough.
If not, I take no responsibility for
anything.
So with that in place,
I also made the changes changing
all of the pink to yellow.
So go ahead and
have no idea what this look like,
felt like that wasn't gonna win me
any graphic design awards anyway.
So I think we're okay.
So I will push that up to GitHub which
will kick off the build process itself.
So we can see once we have
it's not totally up yet but
once it goes up it will run our process
which again., Just doing the same things
that we did by hand before it will go
ahead, it will build all the assets.
It will install it,
it will install dependencies,
then it will build the assets.
Then it will sync them up
with our s3 bucket and
then it will tell CloudFront to clear
the cache and get ready for the and
start serving out the new
hotness of my yellow website,
as opposed to my pink
formerly Indigo website.
So let's check this out
slow on the pushing for
some reason I don't seem
to be able to cancel that.
But I'll show you the last
one that I did as well.
We can see all the steps going through,
the naming them is super helpful
if you ever want to figure
out what went wrong, right?
If you just had if you had a bunch of
runs in there, right or all together,
then you have to go triage it yourself.
But here you would actually
see what happened.
You can see that it created
the invalidation for CloudFront,
which I can also verify in
CloudFront itself as well as
deploying everything just like
we run it from the command line.
But now I never have to run it
from the command line again,
any time a commit makes it into main
it will automatically get deployed.
I don't think about it anymore.
That does mean you have to be somewhat
careful in this particular use case about
what you merge into main, right?
Like whether you have release branches or
you can do it on other ways,
we just did the simple one.
This is not a workshop on GitHub actions.
It's a workshop on just automating this
piece of the pipeline for ourselves.
Back to my actions, we can see that's
going to go through the same process.
We basically know how that should play out
assuming that my yellow got in there and
I didn't mess up that last Git dance.
We'll go through all the steps
that we saw earlier.
And at that point, we now have
a 90% of the way their version of
what we built for a company whose
product was making some amount
of money I probably can't
disclose that loud.
But worth it right and so
we've built basically the similar process